Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
Ans: A program is a set of instructions a computer follows in order to perform a task.
A programming language is a special language used to write computer programs.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Ans: The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment used
for developing Java applications and applets. It includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE),
an interpreter/loader (Java), a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (Javadoc)
and other tools needed in Java development.

What is IDE?
Ans: Integrated Development Environment

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Ans. Java IDEs
   BlueJ.
   Codenvy.
   DrJava.
   Eclipse.
   Greenfoot.
   IntelliJ IDEA
   JCreator.
   (Oracle) JDeveloper.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Ans: Editor -> Source code -> Java compiler -> byte code -> JVM -> operating system.

what is class?
Ans: Class is Blue print of Java

What is object?
Ans: object is an instance of Class

What is the entry point of an application?
Ans: An entry point is where the first instructions of a program are executed,

Why main is static?
Ans: Because the compiler can call it without the creation of an object
or before the creation of an object of the class

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Ans: Object class.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Ans: The main difference between PATH and CLASSPATH is that PATH is an environment variable
which is used to locate JDK. CLASSPATH ia an environment variable is used for locate and load
compile Java byte codes stored in the .class file.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Ans: Variables declared in a Java interface is by default final.
An  abstract class may contain non-final variables.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Ans: No, we have to implement it by any concrete class.

what is Access Specifier?
Ans: Java Access Specifiers regulate access to classes, variable and methods.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Ans: OOP denotes Object Oriented Programming,
Features of OOP are : 1. Abstraction
                      2. Encapsulation
                      3. Inheritance
                      4. Polymorphism.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Ans: Java lang package are imported by default

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Ans: Application Programming Interface.
Some API i have used so far : Enum, Abstract, super, interface, filerReader, bufferReader, Singleton,
printWriter, FileWriter, File, Scanner,constructor, Array ,ArrayList, LinkedList, Map, HasMap etc.


Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Ans: No java does not support Multiple Inheritance directly,
because it leads Method overriding extended same class and same method.


What is method overloading and when it happens?
Ans: Static method is overloading and it happen at compilation.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?

What is final, finally and finalize?
Ans: Final: Access modifier used for restriction on class, method and variable.
     Finally: is used to execute methods no matter what, even if exception not match.

What is a constructor ?
Ans: Constructor is class.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Ans: yes

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Ans: Class

What is "this" keyword in java ?
Ans: this keyword is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Ans: super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.
super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method.
super can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
Ans: JVM is Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
Ans: Yes

What version of java are you using?
Ans: java 13.0.2

What is JAR stand for ?
Ans:  JAR is Java ARchive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Ans: JDK: JDK is a software development environment used for making Java applications.
     JVM: JVM is an engine that provides a runtime environment to drive the Java Code or applications.
          It converts Java bytecode into machine language.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Ans: JVM: JVM is an engine that provides a runtime environment to drive the Java Code or applications.
     It converts Java bytecode into machine language.
     JRE: JRE is a software which is designed to run other software.

What is compile time and run time?
Ans: Compile time checking occurs during the compile time.
     Run time is the instance where the executable code is running.

What is heap?
Ans: A heap is a tree-based data structure in which all the nodes of the tree are in a specific order

How java manage it's memory?
Ans:In Java memory management is the process of allocation and de allocation of objects.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Ans: String is a class and also data type but not primitive data type.
     StringBuffer Class is synchronized
     StringBuilder Class is no synchronized

What is Singleton class?
Ans: A singleton class is a class that can have only one object an instance of the class at a time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Ans: Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
     Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

when to use transient variable in java?
Ans: The Java transient keyword is used on class attributes/variables to indicate that serialization
 process of such class should ignore such variables while creating a persistent byte stream for any
 instance of that class.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
Ans: difference between a while loop and do while loop is that while loop check condition before iteration of the loop.
     the do-while loop verifies the condition after the execution of the statements inside the loop.

What is Enum?
Ans:AN Enum is a special class that represent a group of constant (unchangeable variables, like final variables)

What is Iterator?
Ans: Java Iterator is an interface available in collection framework in java.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Ans: Integer takes 128 bits, int takes 32 bit

Why is String Immutable in Java?
Ans: The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Ans: Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Ans:Serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one GC thread for the GC operation,
Parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation.

What is JIT stands for?
Ans: Just in time.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Ans: The Java Heap Space is the memory container.
     Garbage Collection is the process of freeing space in the heap or the nursery for allocation of new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Ans: No

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Ans: The main difference between heap and stack is that stack memory is used to store local variables
and function, while heap memory is used to store objects in Java.


What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Ans: Java Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime,
    without knowing the names of the classes, methods etc. at compile time.
    It is also possible to instantiate new objects, invoke methods and get/set field values using reflection.

what is multithreading in java?
Ans: Multithreading in Java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Ans: Synchronization means that on this object only one thread can execute the enclosed block at one time.

What is Framework?
Ans: A Java framework is a type of framework specific to the Java programming language,
     used as a platform for developing software applications and Java programs.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
Ans: Some available testing Framework are JTest, The Grinder, TestNG, JUnit, JWalk, Mockito, Powermock.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
Ans: Difference is that TestNG supports Dependency Testing while JUnit does not.

What are the dependencies for this project?
Ans: Java Dependency design pattern allows us to remove the hard coded dependencies and make our
application extendable and maintainable.

what is dependency injection in java?
Ans: Dependency Injection in Java is a way to achieve Inversion of control in our application
    by moving objects binding from compile time to runtime.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Ans: Static binding is Overloading binding and Dynamic binding is Overrinding binding..









