Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
Ans: By using data structure we can arrange, manipulate, store and retrieve data
     from computer memory or from any disk.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Ans: General operations performed on a data structure are -

    -- Insertion, to add items to it
    -- Deletion, to remove items from it
    -- Modification, to modify items
    -- Searching, to search for a particular item
    -- Sorting, to sort the items in a required order.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Ans: Some areas are :   Compiler Design,Operating System,
                        Database Management System,
                        Statistical analysis,
                        Numerical Analysis,
                        Graphics,
                        Artificial Intelligence,
                        Simulation.

what is an Array?
Ans: An Array can hold multiple values of same data type simultaneously.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Ans: Arrays are fixed length data structures. You can’t change their size once they are created.
     ArrayList is dynamic in nature. Its size is automatically increased if you add elements beyond its capacity.

what is LinkedList?
Ans: A linked list is a linear data structure where each element is a separate object.
    Each element is called node of a list is comprising of two items, the data and a reference to the next node.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
Ans: An array is the data structure that contains a collection of similar type data elements,
     whereas the Linked list is considered as non-primitive data structure contains a collection of unordered linked elements known as nodes.

what is queue?
Ans: A Queue is a linear structure it follows the order of First in First out data structure.

what is stack?
Ans: Stack is a linear data structure which follows a particular order Last In First Out.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
Ans: FIFO: First in First out
     LIFO: Last in First out

what is the order of complexity?
Ans: Order of complexity is a rough approximation of the number of steps necessary to execute an algorithm.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Ans: Linear Search with complexity O(n)
     Binary Search with complexity O(log n)
     Search using HASH value with complexity O(1)

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Ans: Worst case arise when the element is at last position or not in the array.

what is tree in data structure?
ANs: A Tree is a nonlinear Data structure. A tree can be empty with no nodes.

what is graph in data structure?
Ans: A Graph is a nonlinear Data structure consists of nodes and edges.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Ans: HashMap is non synchronized. It is not thread safe and can't be shared between many threads without proper synchronization code.
     Hashtable is synchronized. It is thread safe and can be shared with many threads.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
Ans: RDBMS: Array
     Network data and Model: Graph
     Hierarchical data model: Trees

How HashMap works in java?
Ans: HashMap works On principle of Hashing, Hashing in its simplest form, is a way to assigning a unique code for any
variable/object after applying any formula/algorithm on its properties.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
Ans: ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is a runtime exception, It only occur at runtime.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Ans: There are mainly four different ways to copy
     1. Manually
     2. Arrays.copyOf()
     3. System.arraycopy()
     4. Object.clone()

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
Ans:  An array is the data structure that contains a collection of similar type data elements whereas the Linked list is
considered as non-primitive data structure contains a collection of unordered linked elements known as nodes.

What is DFS and BFS?
ANs: BFS stands for Breadth First Search. DFS stands for Depth First Search.

What is Recursion?
Ans: The process in which a function calls itself directly or indirectly is called recursion.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
Ans: A Linear data structure have data elements arranged in sequential manner and each member element is connected to
     its previous and next element.
     A non-linear data structure has no set sequence of connecting all its elements and each element can have multiple paths
     to connect to other elements.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
Ans: With Big O Notation we express the runtime in terms of — how quickly it grows relative to the input,
     as the input gets larger.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
Ans:
Algorithm	                    Time Complexity

                    Best	        Average     	    Worst
Selection Sort	    Ω(n^2)	        θ(n^2)	            O(n^2)
Bubble Sort	        Ω(n)	        θ(n^2)	            O(n^2)
Insertion Sort	    Ω(n)	        θ(n^2)  	        O(n^2)
Heap Sort	        Ω(n log(n))	    θ(n log(n))	        O(n log(n))
Quick Sort	        Ω(n log(n))	    θ(n log(n))	        O(n^2)
Merge Sort	        Ω(n log(n))	    θ(n log(n))	        O(n log(n))
Bucket Sort	        Ω(n+k)	        θ(n+k)	            O(n^2)
Radix Sort	        Ω(nk)	        θ(nk)	            O(nk)


Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


  Ans:           Access     Insert      Search      Remove

  Array            θ(1)	     θ(n)	   θ(n)	          θ(n)
  Stack            θ(1)	     θ(1)	   θ(n)	          θ(1)
  Queue            θ(n)	     θ(1)	   θ(n)	          θ(1)


